---
date: 2023-11-17
categories:
  - hpc
  - update
---

# 3.9.2 Confluent release

3.9.2 has been released with the following changes:
<!-- more -->

## nodedeploy checking improvement

The `nodedeploy` command now checks the profile prior to issuing boot overrides or power control.

## osdeploy improvements

The `osdeploy` initialize command better handles different orders of invocation, eliminating unexpected
dependencies in some cases and alerting in others.

## Expanded confluent_selfcheck

The `confluent_selfcheck` will now examine networking compatibility between deployment server and specified node.

## Normalized sensors in API

Select sensors (average CPU temperature, inlet temperature, overall power utilization) have been made normalized,
striving to use industry standard mechanisms, with options for vendors to override and specify in a vendor specific way.

## Improved error reporting for syncfiles

For issues such as skipping the automation keys, syncfiles will now present a more
informative output.

## confignet now uses bond instead of team in EL distributions

Following Red Hat guidance, the use of teams in new profiles is disused in favor of the traditional bond approach.

## Fix `imgutil capture` with Ubuntu installed with certain snaps

Ubuntu cloning with certain snaps installed is fixed.

## Genesis is updated to be CentOS Stream 9 based

A newer base for the Genesis environment is used.

## Fix Ubuntu clone deployment to NVMe.

Ubuntu is now able to successfully clone to NVMe drives

