---
date: 2024-08-27
categories:
  - hpc
  - update
---

# 3.11.0 Confluent release

3.11.0 has been released with the following changes:
<!-- more -->

## Ubuntu repository is now available

An apt repository has been provided for Ubuntu 22.04 and Ubuntu 24.04 management servers


## Enhanced inventory and sensors for Geist/Vertiv PDUs

Geist/Vertiv PDUs will now return more sensor and inventory data

## Ubuntu may now install from disk rather than network

If Ubuntu install detects install media provided by a disk (e.g. virtual USB) it will use that as deployment source.

## Ubuntu install now implements deployment.encryptboot

An ubuntu install will now use systemd-cryptsetup to implement disk encryption, sealed to TPM.

## confluentdbutil now provides natural sort for more values

This produces more stable json content run to run.

## Updates to discovery for modern XCC firmware

Certain restrictions on capability are accomodeated.

## imgutil exec environment improvements

Some oddities inside an exec are addressed. Specifically, /dev/pts and more normal looking root filesystem mount, particularly to satisfy a number of systemd utilities.

## Add recovery key support for encrypted boot

If using encryptboot, a key may now be provided in /var/lib/confluent/private/os/<profile>/pending/luks.key

If it exists, it will be used to encrypt the disk, allowing manual entry of the key if the TPM should become unavailable, to facilitate
recovering the boot filesystem.

## Preliminary support for Lenovo V4 systems featuring xClarity Controller 3

For xClarity controller 3, the recommended console.method is now openbmc and the recommended hardwaremanagement.method is redfish.

Discovery support will detect and allow configuration of xClarity Controller 3 based systems.

## Enhancements to redfish method support

The redfish method now supports nodeconfig -r bmc, as well as adding nodeconfig -e support for Lenovo systems.

## Confignet extended to support VLANS and Infiniband PKEYs

The `net.vlan_id` attribute has been added and implemented for EL style distributions.  See the attribute documentation for details.

## Added confluentdbutil merge subcommand

The confluentdbutil utility has gained a merge subcommand.  This allows adding nodes/groups from another confluent server, whether for merging
multiple instances to one or preparing to make them a collective.

## Implement support for dhcp relay based deployment

A confluent server may now be the target of a DHCP relay agent, and conduct PXE based installation over that as a routed network. This
also comes with fixes for other routed deployment behaviors.

## Improved dependency handling

Packages now list versions to induce updates of related packages.

## Plugin for management of enos switch has been added

Switches running the older ENOS platform can now be monitored

## Numerous bugfixes

 - Fix for OpenBMC duplicate output on 'reopon'
 - Fix for 'power status' in the affluent plugin
 - Fix when root user has multiple ssh public keys during osdeploy initialize -u
 - Fix for missing nodes during SLP and SSDP discovery snooping
 - Improve performance during SLP rescan activity
 - Fixes for Ubuntu diskless boot over infiniband
 - Avoid undesired DHCP activity during static Ubuntu 24.04 deployment
 - Fix firstboot with Ubuntu 22.04 and Ubuntu 24.04
 - Fix untethered boot with Ubuntu diskless
 - Add NTP and timezone data to Ubuntu installations
