---
layout: post
title:  3.8.0 Confluent release
categories: hpc update
---

# Improve memory usage with large number of unreachable nodes

Confluent memory usage over time was growing when trying to deal with unreachable nodes.  This has been improved.

# Various improvements to Ubuntu deployment support

The limited support for Ubuntu has been expanded

# nodeconsole -t will now reuse existing tmux if started from within tmux

This will more intelligently use a detected in-use tmux session.

# Add nodesensors for Cooltera CDUs

Cooltera CDUs will now provide some data to nodesensors.

# Improve collective behaviors

* When a collective leader goes down, provide better recovery and better
ongoing monitoring. 
* non-voting members will no longer be promoted
to the role of leader, aligning with likely treatment of non-voting members.
* Slow dispatch operations will no longer hang up an entire confluent instance

# New `nodeapply` command

The `nodeapply` command serves a similar role as `updatenode` did in xCAT: shorthand for a number of common operations.

# Support to dump timestamped logs in nodeconsole

The `nodeconsole` command adds the `-T` option to allow writing a log with
in-line timestamps.

# EL9 is now supported for cloning

The command `imgutil capture` will now work on EL9 based nodes.

# Custom roles support

Custom roles may now be specified in /etc/confluent/authorization.yaml.
The roles are defined in a way similar to `auth.py`.  This file must be consistent across a collective.

# Various bug fixes

* ProxyDHCP functionality is more robust in face of errored clients
* SLP functionality persists in face of misbehaving SLP responders
* Correct some misbehaviors on terminals in WebGUI (serialized operations, unrecognized functions)
* Improve ansible behavior when ansible python version differs from confluent
* Improve ansible behavior when a partial ansible inventory is provided
* Fix SSDP behavior in EL9 management nodes

