---
layout: post
title:  3.9.3 Confluent release
categories: hpc update
---

3.9.3 has been released with the following changes:


# Update onboarding to support latest xClarity Controller firmware

Recent firmware has removed the ability to rename while any ssh or web sessions are
open, adapt by ensuring we are not logged in via any other channel when renaming the
user.

# Relax restrictions on netboot check of collective.candidatemanagers

If the candidate managers entry was not a valid noderange, it could cause silent failures.
Fix this and support simple comma delimited names if it fails to be a noderange.

# Fix nodeapply operation against multiple nodes

nodeapply was erroneously running on a single node rather than each node in a noderange.

# Fix LLDP data when switch returns incomplete data.

Some LLDP data was incomplete, this scenario is now handled appropriately.

# Improve VT Buffer communication

The VT buffer emulation component used in nodeconsole now has a faster communication channel
with the larger confluent runtime. This should significantly improve performance during lots of console activity.

# Make SLP scanning more robust

SLP scanning was breaking in the face of partially disabled multicast/broadcast. This issue is fixed.

# Improve collate abbreviation

Some mistakes could be made in abbreviating noderange featuring complex names. This has been addressed.

# Filter multipath nvme while determining install disk.

nvme devices may materialize path information, which confused the search for install disks. This is
now accomodated.

# Improve noderange error messages on certain cases

Some noderange syntax errors had confusing error messages, and those cases have been given
better messages.
