---
date: 2020-04-23
---

# 2.5.0 Confluent release

There is an update to the HPC software stack, bringing xCAT to 2.15.1.lenovo1, based on 2.15.1,
and confluent is brought to 2.5.0.
<!-- more -->

Here are some of the highlighted changes:

## Change from pickle to msgpack for intra-collective communication

Due to changes in the underlying protocol, a collective may not come up until all active
collective members are updated.

## role is now a mandatory attribute for users and groups

When creating a user or group, formerly it defaulted to admin role. Now this must be
explicitly specified:

`confetty create /users/name role=admin`

## nodeconfig performance improvements for XCC based systems

nodeconfig is significantly improved for XCC based systems for most settings. This has
required that 'IMM.' settings be relegated to optionally be fetched (using `-e` option)
which will be as slow as nodeeconfig has previously been.

## Confluent now runs as 'confluent' user

Rather than run as root, confluent will run as confluent user as configured by
the packaged systemd unit file.  confluent however does have certain extended capabilities
to continue providing the same function.

## Cumulus switch support through `affluent` package.

A debian packaged agent named 'affluent' is available for cumulus switches. This provides
more secure and faster access to health and network information to confluent.

## collate adds a `-g` option

collate will list a count of different output groups rather than the actual output when
requested.
