---
date: 2023-03-08
categories:
  - hpc
  - update
---

# 3.7.0 Confluent release

3.7.0 has been released with the following changes:
<!-- more -->

## collective members may be invited as non-voting

collective invite may now be passed '-n' to have the invited member join
as non-voting.  A non-voting collective member will neither contribute nor detract
from quorum.  This permits indicating non-critical members to allow larger
numbers of the collective to leave without issue.


## SUSE installer output restored to automatic console

A change in SUSE had resulted in the automatic console failing to trigger
text mode install when appropriate.  This has been changed and text install
is now triggered on automatic text console detection

## Static IPv6 configuration of BMCs

Static IPv6 network configuration of redfish and IPMI BMCs has been added,
visible in `nodeconfig`

## nodeinventory can now gather uuid/serial/model information to confluent attributes

`nodeinventory -s` can be used to fill in attributes normally filled in by the discovery
process.  This allows users who skip discovery and add nodes manually to use nodeinventory
to gather the attributes for informational purposes and directing boot.

## nodediscover may now show affluent switches

In conjunction with changes made to affluent 1.2.0, nodediscover list -t affluent-switch
will now show ethernet switches, and what IPv6 and IPv4 addresses may be used to reach them

## nodeeventlog entry count and timeframe

The `nodeeventlog` command now has a `-l` option to request the specified number of most
recent entries, or `-t` to request logs no older than a specified time.

## nodeconsole can now open terminals in dedicated windows

The `nodeconsole` command now has the option `-w` to request windowed consoles.

## Network configuration management can now deal with nic renaming through post/firstboot on select profiles

Before, when a post activity would result in a network device name change (e.g. OFED installation
changing nVidia ethernet names), the network may have problems coming up.  Some profiles have added
support for adapting the configuration prior to firstboot to compensate for the name change.

## Lenovo ThinkSystem V3 servers are officially supported

The new generation of Lenovo ThinkSystem servers have been tested and support enhanced
according to new capabilities



