---
date: 2024-06-15
---

# 3.10.0 Confluent release

3.10.0 has been released with the following changes:
<!-- more -->

## Ubuntu 24.04

Ubuntu 24.04 is now supported for deployment.

## A new `nodebmcpassword` command is added

This facilitates the process of cycling a BMC password

## A new `l2traceroute` command is added

This will walk LLDP provided neighbor data among switches to reflect a path between nodes.

## Deployment over USB attached storage

Red Hat and similar will now use media as install source if this is detected.

## Improved ARM support

More ARM deployments will succeed, including Ubuntu

## nodeattrib warnings around inheritence

As attribute inheritence and clearing/blanking is a common source of confusion, warnings are now added to let the
user know that they are manipulating inheritence rather than evicting a value.

## PDU and Enclosure operations are now concurrent

Formerly, PDU and enclosure operations were serial, they are now parallel across PDUs and Chassis (though still serial within a PDU or Chassis)

## Better ssh server configuration

In Red Hat 8 and 9, if sshd_config.d is detected, use that rather than modifying the global sshd_config file directly.

## Improved syncfiles error behavior

Syncfiles will now retry on error, and pause deployment, along with providing more useful feedback as to why the sync would be failing

## Improved PXE support

Some relay agents required option 82 be echoed back, these agents are now supported.  iPXE under aarch64 now receives filename directly in the
DHCP offer.

## OS Deployment API enhancements

The API now supports querying an import as a dry run as well as customizing the distribution name and profile information returned under the /deployment/ api

## Allow /dev access in the confluent systemd service

This prepares for fuse filesystem management under the confluent service.

## Provide API for helping remote system access BMCs by their IP address

Formerly, a caller could only retrieve the BMC by attribute name, or request a TCP port forward. This adds ability to management node to locally resolve and provide the calling client the IP address.

## Rack layout information added to API

A client may now request server side resolution of rack layout, including rack rows, rack numbers, u locations, height, etc.

## Numerous bugfixes

 - servicedata save checking now verifies ability to save file before beginning the servicedata process
 - Diskless boot will have a static hostname set in more circumstances
 - A fallback to UTC timezone has been added if the timezone cannot be detected
 - Numerous fixes for IPv6-only usage
 - Fix an issue where multipath nvme could confuse the install disk logic.
 - When using {} in an attribute expression, an error is now raised rather than just silently dropping {}
 - Better handling of syntax errors within [] in a noderange
 - Fix collate mangling of leading whitespace 
 - Fix potential failure to acquire API token if a failure occurs during the exchange
 - Fix firewall behavior in ESXi install to ensure that newer ESXi installations can succeed 
 - SLP passive detection is fixed, allowing autosense of SMM and IMM2s once again
 - Disable lldpad during Red Hat installation to avoid network misbehaviors on some NICs

