---
date: 2025-08-27
---
# 3.14.1 Confluent release

3.14.1 has been released with the following changes:
<!-- more -->
## Improve PXE response times in select environments

IPv6 name lookup is now skipped in the context of an IPv4-only
PXE/HTTP boot attempt.

## Fix nodeconsole screenshot with el8 vintage pillow

el8 python3-pillow package will now work, albeit with lower quality
scaling than more modern versions.

## Improved confluent_selfcheck

More thorough vetting of root user keys is done, and ssh-agent is
no longer left idly running.

## Address potential crash in SSDP passive discovery

Certain activities could close the passive SSDP detection capability,
this has been addressed.

## Fix nodeconsole text backends for vcenter and proxmox

The text console handlers were not working correctly, this
has been addressed.

## Red Hat 10 deployment fixed on ARM platforms

The ARM platform deployments were failing with Red Hat 10 and similar,
this release adds support for EL10 ARM.

## Fix interoperability with certain versions of psutil

To support newer python editions, a switch was made to support psutil.
However, if older distributions had installed psutil from their repos,
there was a potential breakage in deployment. This has been addressed.

## The `net.*mtu` attribute is now available.

confignet will now apply mtu specified in attributes.

## Support newer ansible versions

Ansible revised some facets of their runtime, a change is made to accommodate both older and newer vintages of ansible.

## Improve diskless operation with kernel callbacks and reduce memory footprint of tethered diskless

By default, the 'root' namespace is now left intact, making for intuitive behavior for scenarios where kernel calls into userspace.  However, if debugssh is requested, the mount namespace will be unshared again.  Further clear some ramfs usage that is no longer needed in this scenario.

## Modifications for getinstalldisk

The logic has been amended. Now read-only devices and 'cd-style' devices are skipped, and the smallest device of a class is now preferred.  To apply this to current OS profiles, you will need to run `osdeploy rebase` on those profiles, otherwise the classic install disk logic will persist.

## Multiple volume groups can now be deployed from an `imgutil capture`

Support for a plan to map additional volume groups has been added to the cloning install support.

## confluent2ansible may now amend, rather than replace inventory.

It will now be more reasonable to specify a noderange for selective operation.

## Improve reliability of routed diskless interface validation

When performing routed boot of diskless, network link is checked
in a more robust manner.

## openEuler 24.03 can now be deployed by scripted install

The openEuler 24.03 distribution is only implemented for scripted install of a deployed node for now.

## Confluent startup performance improved

When confluent had many log files in /var/log/confluent, startup would slow down quite a bit. This is significantly improved.

## Improve certificate management

Expand manipulation of nginx configuration, and also indicate the CA as
a certificate chain. This opens the possibility to sign the CA and have it operate as an intermediate or cross-signed CA instead of having to be a trust anchor for all clients.

## Debian 13 support is added

Changes from Debian 12 are accommodated. The Proxmox example script is
also updated.

## Default to HWE kernel for Ubuntu distributions

When HWE is detected on media, copy both and default to the HWE. If HWE
is not desired, modifying the symbolic link in the profile will use
the baseline kernel, which may lack support for newer devices.

## Fix redfish method for managing BMC users

The user management feature was not working across a broad range of redfish targets, this has been improved.

## Fixes and enhancements to installtodisk feature of imgutil build images

"Diskless" el8, el9, and el10 images may now be installed to disk, with a number of enhancements.

## Fix ssh host key handling on exit of agent

If the managed agent exited for whatever reason, confluent would cease
issuing certificates to nodes. Confluent will now recover from such a scenario.
