---
date: 2025-10-15
---

# 3.14.2 Confluent release

3.14.2 has been released with the following changes:
<!-- more -->
## Move some tmp content from /tmp

This improves execution in environments where /tmp is noexec

## nodefirmware query by category

Firmware may now be queried by category (e.g. core,adapters,misc,disks). This can provide faster results for the firmware of interest.

## Extend confluent_selfcheck

Check for tcp_sack.

## More specific ESXi edition identification

If a customized ESXi edition has further build id information, append that for unique versioning.

## Support direct filename boot for ARM systems

For some ARM firmware, the full PXE standard is not implemented, workaround by skipping the 4011 for such targets.

## Fix netplan usage if nmcli present in Ubuntu

If the distribution has both available, use netplan by preference.

## Fix some ssh node configuration rewrite

If rerunning ssh configuration, do not leave stale certificate behind.

## Improve Ubuntu network bringup behavior with identity images and DHCP

When using DHCP with identity image based bringup of Ubuntu, more robust logic is applied to carry forward.

## Do not prompt on boot.img boot grub

The grub prompt has been a source of boot pauses in some environments, default to not allowing this to match the iPXE behavior

## Have confignet verify network connectivity before exit

confignet may have exited before the network was fully working. By delaying exit, this mitigates risk of follow up scripts failing.

## Retry ESXi network bringup

Some configurations fail on first invocation, use a loop to retry

## Restore filename paramater expansion for nodemedia, nodelicense, and nodefirmware

The use of passed filehandles had broken support for `nodemedia upload {node}.img` and similar.  This capability has been restored.

## Add `-r` flag to nodedeploy

The '-r' allows a redeploy of the currently deployed or pending profile without having to specify the profile by name again.

## Auto-adjust unreadable console colors

Some firmware outputs white on white with 'bold' expected to apply intense color. However some terminals refuse to do this.  Force
this behavior by substituting intense colors for standard colors when it is bold and the background and foreground are the same color.

## Add bmc.vlan_id and bmc.mac_address to nodeconfig

More BMC network attributes are now exposed through nodeconfig.

## Fix bmcconfig for XCC3 based systems

The correct remote handling has been applied for XCC3 when invoked by bmcconfig.

## ESXi installation disk now has more complete logic

Rather than just take esxi logic by default, apply comparable logic as is done for other operating systems.

## Add `nodecertutil` for managing node TLS certificates and authorities.

For now, the utility allows management of CA certificates on select redfish BMCs

