---
date: 2026-04-10
---

# Confluent 3.15.1 release

3.15.1 has been released with the following changes:

## Security hardening for profile private data

If someone modifies service.cfg to open confluent directly to external access, then authenticated nodes could have exploited a path traversal weakness to read files on the management node outside of the profile. This has been addressed.

## Support for Nokia SRLinux

Switches running SRLinux have enhanced capabilities.  `hardwaremanagement.method` set to `srlinux` will enable a number of commands. See [Confluent configuration notes for Nokia Ethernet switches](../miscellaneous/nokia-confignotes.md) for more detail.


## `nodeapply` can now request execution of ansible plays

The profile ansible plays were previously only invoked by confluent during deployment, without a recourse to have confluent execute.  By request, `nodeapply` can request the confluent runner to kick off ansible plays similar to how it can kick off postscripts.  `nodeapply -A' is the new argument.

## Fix for variation seen in ansible

Some versions/distributions of ansible fouled confluent's autodetection, a broader set of ansible versions work.  Particularly the ansible likely to be put in EL10 now works.

## Fix for misdetection of EL8.10

EL8.10 import was broken due to misidentification, this has been fixed.

## Improve behavior with missing volumegroup map for multi-disk cloning image

An inscrutible error appeared for users trying to deploy multi-disk clones, this has been improved. It still requires explicit work in pre.d to generate the mapping as an advanced usage scenario.

## Fix ssh environment for recent EL10 diskless boot

EL10 had changes to move away from setgid ssh keysign to setuid keysign, and accompanying refusal to start with group readable keys.  This has been detected and adapted.

## Quorum state is pushed on member deletion

If a collective is one system shy of quorum and a member is deleted to bring quorum back, the leader failed to notify members of restoration of quorum.  This has been addressd.

## Other fixes and enhancements

Some documentation tweaks and a situation that could leak filehandles with bad certificates is addressed.

