---
date: 2026-07-13
---

# 3.15.5 Confluent release

3.15.5 has been released with the following changes:
<!-- more -->

## Fixes for Ubuntu netplan `confignet`

Bad gateway values and better behavior for newly configured non-bond devices

## Fix for debian deployment on slow link up

Network initialization is retried until network comes up more reliably.

## Ensure paths are normalized in various contexts

Resolve any relative path components to a consistent path in various contexts

## Ensure uploaded files in WebUI cannot be uploaded outside of staging area

It was possible to upload to other directories if logged in as an authenticated user

## Use user privileges as possible to check file access on license, media, and firmware upload

Do not upload a file confluent can read but the system user connected cannot.

## Fix issue where a node could identify itself as a partial management server

If a node could see it’s own multicast packet, it could mistake itself for a candidate deployment server. This has been fixed.

## Make `autoconsole` logic consistent

When the autoconsole python script runs, only run for EFI x86_64 systems, always trust SPCR if given, then select by TIOCMGET, and only if multiple select by carrier detect.

## Recover from vtbufferd exits

nodeconsole would stop working if vtbufferd were interrupted, and a zombie process would be seen. This has been fixed.

## Tighten up webauthn handling

webauthn urls could be confused with the older webconsole urls, straighten out that confusion.

## Fix imgutil issues with ARM64

imgutil would gather grub and shim to the wrong names in some scenarios with ARM systems
